In this lesson we are gonna make additional API
endpoint that is going to use to fetch questions and
answers created by current users logged in. To give
you a better idea about what we're going to build
let me go to Stack Overflow.
Then here then here I'll randomly
choose a user so if I scroll down a bit
So here are a list of post questions and
answers that have been created by the user.
We can display only questions here
or answers here.
Later we're going to consume our API endpoint and build
this such user interface in home page or dashboard
page to be precise which currently it's
only show you are logged in message.
All right
As always before doing any changes let's
go ahead and open up our terminal
then create a new branch
by saying: git checkout
-b lesson-54. All right now let's create a brand new
controller by saying php artisan make:controller
you can name your controller whatever name you like
In my case I'm gonna call it current users posts controller.
I know it's too long so maybe my posts controller is good.
I'm gonna also specify -i flag or invokable controller.
Whoops I almost forgot to put this controller in
Api
All right let's pull up my posts controller
this method is going to accept request object.
Then inside this method we simply return response json
passing an array then inside these let's define data as a key
then the value is going to taken from request
user to get the current user logged in.
Then chain in with posts. Here
the posts method is not defined yet.
And the reason why I call it post
is because we are going to return
both answers and or questions here.
So basically this method will abstract some logic
to retrieve both questions and answers retrieve
only questions or only answers. And probably
you will see a bit more complex logic in here.
All right let's open the user model
here we can define the posts method somewhere but
before we write some code here let me show you how the
data should be presented.
So as you can see here in a single item it contains
votes count title accepted created at and type.
I'm sure you have already familiar with
this structure except the type.
So basically the type is used to identify whether
it's a question or answer. if it's a question
then here it's going to be 'Q' otherwise if it's an answer
then it's going to be 'A' as simple as that. Then
here
let's define
the posts method
now as I have mentioned earlier that this method
allows  user to retrieve whether both their questions
and answers just their questions or only their answers.
So here we'll need kind of capture of the request type
from the client side that will distinguish the
response. The way that we can do is to call request
get type then we can assign it into a variable type
bellow that we can check the type value in if statement.
So if type is equals to questions
then we'll get the current user's questions.
And assigned it into posts variable. Here we'll
need to call the get method to make sure that
our post is in collections.
You could also call paginate if you want
but in my case I'll call the get method only.
So here we have handled the question option.
We still need to think the rest possibilities all and
answers. The way that we can do is to add else block.
Then inside here we can define another posts variable
and it's going to store the current user's answers
we need to call `with` method and put
question in just to eager load the query.
And last we can chain in with `get` method.
All right
Lastly let's check the third option.
We can say if type is equals to all or I can
also say if type is not equals answers
now here what we need to do is to
merge both answers and questions right?
So here let's define another variable.
I just want to call it posts two then we can assign
the current user's questions to it as we did before
here.
Last we can merge the answers collection
In this case posts that we have defined
here with the posts two by saying
posts merge posts two or you can do
all the way around posts two merge posts.
I'm sick with this one posts merge post
two and then we can reassign to posts.
All right so we have retrieved the collection of answers
and questions based on the type request that
comes in. Now
the next thing that we need to do is kind of transform
that collection to another structure that we
have seen before.
So here let's define a new variable to hold new constructor. Here
I'm gonna call it data and instead of assigning
it with empty array here I'm gonna call laravel
`collect` helper function.
The reason why I did this is because I'm gonna
short this structure before I actually return them
let's loop through the posts
then here
let's define a temporary variable to hold a new structure. Here
I'm gonna call it item and assign an array
then inside this we can take the things that exist in
the post instance without need to know whether
it's a question or answer instance.
So here we have vptes count
and created at
and here
I'm gonna format it in capital M d capital Y
now for other values such as title type and accepted
we need to distinguish whether the post is answer
or question instance. Here we can just say if post
instance of answer
then inside this we can define the type title and accepted
so the type is going to be 'A'
then the title is going to taken from
post question title
now four accepted it will hold boolean value.
And here we can say if post question best answer id
is equals to post id then return `true` otherwise
return `false`.
All right now we can copy this whole lines
paste here let's add else in front of the if
then change this to question so if the post is instance of question
then the type is going to be 'Q'. The title is gonna
taken from post title now for accepted in here
we can simply remove the question
and remove everything after this.
Remember that the best answer id as the name implies
is to hold answer's id that marked as best answer
if none answer accepted this would be null. So to return
boolean value we can simply typecast to boolean like
so.
All right
All right so we have our new structure
we can add that into data variable. Since data
is a collection we can add the item to it
by saying data push item.
And lastly we can return to data by saying return data.
But as I mentioned before I want to short the whole structure
In this case I want to sort them by
votes count. How can we do that? Here
because data is a collection instance
here we can simply chain in with `sortBy` if you want to sort
this ascendingly. But in my case I want to sort them descendingly
So here I'll say sort by descending and pass the votes count in.
So until this point we have our collection sorted.
but the sort method will keep the original array keys.
So in this case we need to chain in with `values`
to reset the keys to consecutively numbered index.
And last we can call `all` method.
All right
I think that's all we need to do in this posts method.
Now let's do the final step
let's provide a route for this logic.
Let's open up our api.php
inside here
let's define a get route
the uri is going to be my posts
and the route handling is going to be api
My posts controller.
All right
save all changes.
And now let's test our endpoint in postman.
Let's go to questions
Let's duplicate this
then I'll rename it to current user's posts
the method will be the same while
the you URL will be API my posts.
Now if I hit the send button
I get status OK
but here I got log in page so I need
to go to headers and add accept
the value is going to be application json
Now if I hit the send button again
here I get error Unauthenticated error.
So we need to specify the authorize header in here
authorization
let's copy the access token
here in the authorization let's add
bearer add a space and paste the token.
Now if I hit the send button again
OK here we get the response back which contain answer
questions
Awesome.
Now let's try adding type parameter
and here it's going to be questions hit send button.
All right now we're getting the question back.
Let's change this type to answers
hit the send button one more time
OK
now I have answers getting back here.
OK that's it for this lesson
We now have API endpoint that later on will be
used  to display the current user's posts whether
questions answers or both.
And with that being said let's continue to the next
section where we'll learn how to build SPA or a single
page application and consume our API
endpoints that we have built in this section.
All right
Let's commit all changes that we made today in our git repo.